SIDR Operations (sidrops)
-----------------------

 Charter

 Current Status: 

 Chairs:
    person1
    person2

 Operations and Management Area Directors:
     Benoit Claise <bclaise@cisco.com
     Joel Jaeggli <joelja@bogus.com>

 Operations and Management Area Advisor:
     lucky-victim

 Mailing Lists:
     General Discussion: sidrops@ietf.org
     To Subscribe:       https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/sidrops
     Archive:            https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/sidr-ops/

Description of Working Group:

  The global deployment of RPKI, Origin Validation of BGP announcements
  and BGPSEC, collectively called SIDR, is underway, creating an Internet
  Routing System consisting of SIDR-aware and non-SIDR-aware networks.
  This deployment must be properly handled to avoid the division of
  the Internet into separate networks, ensuring as secure a routing
  system as possible, through encouraged deployment of the SIDR technologies.

  The SIDR Operations Working Group (sidr-ops) develops guidelines for
  the operation of SIDR-aware networks, and provides operational guidance
  on how to deploy and operate SIDR technologies in new and existing networks.

 In the space of sidr-ops, the term operators will encompass more than just 
 network operators: CA Operators, Regional/National and Local Internet Registries, 
 Relying Party software developers as well as the research/measurement community
 all have relevant operational experience or insight that this working group will 
 consider in its work.

  The main focuses of the SIDR Operations Working Group are to:
    o discuss deployment and operational issues related to SIDR technologies
      in networks which are part of the global routing system.
    o gather and discuss deployment experiences with the SIDR technologies in
      networks which are part of the global routing system. as well as the 
      repositories and CA systems that also form part of the SIDR architecture

  The goals of the sidrops working group are:

  1.  Solicit input from all operators to identify
  operational issues with a SIDR-aware Internet, and determine solutions
  or workarounds to those issues.

  2.  Solicit input from all operators to identify
  operational interaction issues with the non-SIDR-aware Internet,
  and determine solutions or workarounds to those issues.

  3.  Operational solutions for identified issues should be developed
  in sidrops and documented in informational or BCP documents.

  These documents should document SIDR operational experience, including
  interactions with non-SIDR-aware networks, the interfaces between SIDR-aware
  and non-SIDR-aware networks, and the continued operational/security impacts
  from non-SIDR-aware networks.

  SIDR operational and deployment issues with Interdomain Routing Protocols
  are the primary responsibility of the IDR working gruop.  However, the
  sidrops Working Group may provide input to that group, as needed, and
  cooperate with that group in reviewing solutions to SIDR operational and
  deployment problems.

  Future work items within this scope will be adopted by the Working
  Group only if there is a substantial expression of interest from
  the community and if the work clearly does not fit elsewhere in the
  IETF.

  There must be a continuous expression of interest for the Working
  Group to work on a particular work item.  If there is no longer
  sufficient interest in the Working Group in a work item, the item
  may be removed from the list of Working Group items.


Goals and Milestones:
  Sept 2017 - BGPSEC Ops docuemnt finalized.
    draft-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-rollover
    draft-ietf-sidr-rtr-keying
    draft-ietf-sidr-route-server-rpki-light
    draft-ietf-sidr-rpki-tree-validation

------------------------------ below the line ---------------
# These stay with SIDR til done.

  # draft-ietf-sidr-adverse-actions  - WGLC finished
    draft-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-overview
    draft-ietf-sidr-delta-protocol
    draft-ietf-sidr-lta-use-cases
    draft-ietf-sidr-publication
  # draft-ietf-sidr-rpki-oob-setup  - WGLC finished
    draft-ietf-sidr-rpki-validation-reconsidered
    draft-ietf-sidr-slurm

